Hi Laurie & Anne
After our talk of yesterday, I realized that my questions are too wide and perhaps not focussed enough. 
Starting from my orginal Namaqualand proposal for which I received the NRF grant (3 questions, 3 methods) - I did not want to depart too far from this if possible:
Namaqualand questions:
1. What is the spatial ecology (home range sizes, habitat preferences, prey preferences, determining behavioural factors in habitat usage - including prey and other predators) for the 3 major predator species (Leopards, caracals and black-backed jackals) in Namaqualand? - This has mostly been done already in Northern Namibia (except maybe for black-backed jackals). Possible application: 1.1. What farming (predation prevention) methods will be applicable to which farms (i.e. what predators can you expect naturally in the habitat types found on your farm and in which camps can you expect them)? 1.2. Depending on what method works best against which predator, how can a farmer decide on the best methods for his situation?
2. How do the different predators interact spatially? Any exclusion (partial/total) from each others' territories? Any proof of exclusion and thus possible meso-predator release? (Or even the 2 meso-predator species limiting each others' numbers)? Possible application: 2.1. Having leopards can prevent meso-predator release (is this true for Namaqualand?). 2.2. Caracal being easier to capture and kill can lead to ecological imbalance and increase in jackals (if the effects of the killing of caracal cubs by jackals and of jackal pups by caracals are actually large enough to have an influence on their spatial distribution) or vice versa.
3. What are the costs and benefits of the different methods currently used against livestock predation in Namaqualand (including jackal-proof fencing and hunting), both short-term (money only) and long-term (sustainability)? Direct application question.
Methods used:
To get data:
1. Camera traps: simply to 1.1. assess prey species diversity available in each habitat/management treatment area and 1.2. determine good capture sites for each predator species.
2. GPS collars: To determine 2.1. spatial ecology (question 1), 2.2. diet preferences and 2.3. spatial interaction of the 3 predator species.
3. Detailed data from selected farmers who are known to keep good records (instead of general survey), using different predation prevention methods (including lethal methods).
To analyse:
1. GIS analysis of GPS data to determine spatial behaviour (home range sizes, habitat preferences, species overlap etc). 
2. Dempster-Shafer GIS models to model possible reasons for habitat usage. Compare different models to actual GPS data to test for best combination of predictor factors.
3. Use a combination of cost-benefit analysis of farmer methods and spatial ecology data to provide method (decision support model) for farmers to decide which method works "best", both short-term and long-term. (The "best" method might differ between short-term and long-term: e.g. killing one of a breeding pair of jackals might decrease current predation losses (short-term), but has been shown to result in increasing jackal numbers and more losses in the following year (long-term)).

Now the question in Namibia is first of all:
1. Do we need any more (spatial) ecological data on the predator species in order to ensure their survival? Black-backed jackal and caracal are doing fine and unlikely to go extinct in the foreseeable future. The only use of studying their spatial ecology in Namaqualand was to reduce human-predator conflict and and not for their survival as such. The basic spatial ecology questions (home range size, habitat preferences etc.) has already been answered for cheetahs and leopards in Namibia. The detailed questions on their spatial behaviour inside their home ranges (i.e. core areas and possible hunting areas) might not be essential to their long-term survival and might be impossible to get from currently available radio-tracking and camera data? It might help reduce human-wildlife conflict, however. E.g. if the factors determining core habitats or preferred hunting areas within their home ranges are known, it has been used successfully on at least one farm in South Africa (according to the Landbouweekblad / Farmer's Weekly) to prevent leopards predation of calves, by simply moving the calving cows out of the preferred leopard habitat - and it is much easier and less costly than keeping calves in a kraal or using a permanent herder). Can this method be applied in (some parts of) Namibia? 
2. As a scientific contribution, but not necessarily with practical conservation application, there are behavioural questions like "If both cheetah and leopard home ranges of females are resource-dependent whereas male home ranges are determined by the availability of females (cf. Marker, 2002 and Martins, 2010) why do leopard males generally have larger home ranges than females (Martins, 2010, Stein et al., 2011) while cheetah females have larger home ranges than males (Marker et al., 2008)?" Do we want these kind of theoretical questions as part of the PhD at all?
3. Can a better understanding of the spatial and ecological interactions between the predator species play any role in their long-term survival, or in reducing human-wildlife conflict in Namibia? In Namaqualand, as seen above, it would matter, but is there anything new to research on this aspect in Namibia? Cheetah home ranges have already been shown to overlap with both leopards and caracals (and probably jackals: pers. observation), so can we conclude that there are probably little interaction and it will probably have little value for conservation of predators?
4. Only the last part of the project (farming methods) would appear to be applicable to Namibia.

Since both question 1 and 2 of the original research questions were to be answered by using GPS collars, which will no longer be possible, the spatial aspect of the project needs to be either dropped, other methods need to be used (maybe using FIT & tracks - I am not aware of any other methods that will give the data required), or only existing data need to be analysed. The 3 basic questions I would have liked to answer in Namibia:
1. What does the spatial behaviour of the 4 predator species within their home ranges look like? (I.e. finer scaled than currently published data).
2. What effect (if any) does the larger eco-system have on the spatial behaviour of the predator species? (Including habitat / prey effects on larger-scale distribution range, prey preferrences, possible meso-predator release, intra-guild competition, movement & home ranges of other predators etc.)
3. What are the management implications of the spatial ecology of the different predator species for managing human-wildlife conflict, ensuring the long-term sustainability of intact, functioning ecosystems and the survival of the predator species themselves? This includes a comparison of some of the methods used to reduce human-wildlife conflict, their (short-term) costs and benefits, and their long-term benefits in ensuring a sustainable, biodiverse and functioning ecosystem.

Looking at the possible structure of the PhD thesis:
1. Literature review of human-wildlife conflict, what is known and what is still unknown, with an emphasis on the different methods used to reduce conflict and looking at alternatives that might not have been tried in Namibia yet.
2. Three months camera trap survey on Rolf Ritter's farm and comparison with historic data to see if there has been any change in leopard and cheetah numbers (and possible correlation to change in prey diversity).
3. Use Dempster-Shafer modeling to predict factors determining cheetah, leopard, caracal and black-backed jackal habitat preferences. Test for the best model using existing radio-collar data (will this be sufficient)?
4. Farmer survey and cost-benefit analysis of different methods used to prevent livestock predation (with a comparison between commercial and communal areas).
5. Basic comparison of diet preferences for the predator species has already been done (e.g. Stein). Since cluster analysis cannot be used and scat analysis has already been done, diet preferences should probably be dropped?
5. Conclusions?

Since this will only use existing data (except for 3 months camera trapping), it might be possible to do in one year (but will this be enough for a PhD?).

